---
layout: post
title: "Scrum"
date: 2013-04-10 01:00:00 -0600
---

SCRUM is a way to organize the creation of software so that you can produce your end result of shipping high quality software that meets your “clients” expectations.

At a high level overview I really like scrum because it keeps your team cross-functional (instead of everyone retreating to their silos of familiarity) and because everyone on your team is working on the same project during the sprint it breeds a much better environment for collaboration.

Below is simply a list of my notes about the keywords and ideas that make up scrum.
SPRINTS

    Are usually 4 weeks but could be as little as 1 week.
    No new items can be added.
    At the end of the sprint you should have something that is tangible and will be truly “DONE”. The team reviews w/ stakeholders and demo’s application.
    Meet together as a team for 15 min every day

DONE

Done means that your software is integrated, fully tested, end-user documented, and potentially shippable. At the end of the sprint if your product isn’t shippable than you probably lack some automation or your team isn’t cross-functional enough.
SCRUM ROLES

    Product Owner - Maximizes ROI
    Team - is cross-functional and self-managing
        There are no fixed specialist titles in a group
        Multi-Learning
        Team size is +/- 7 people
        Team avoids multi-tasking across multiple projects
    Scrum Master - helps the product group learn and apply scrum

PRODUCT BACKLOG

A prioritized list of features and does not contain user stories. * Detailed Appropriately - Top priorities are more fine-grain than lower priority items * Estimated * Emergent - The product backlog is regularly refined. Items may be added, removed, modified, split, and changed in priority. * Prioritized - Most bang for your buck, tackle high risks early before the risks attack you.
SPRINT PLANNING

You have a meeting that is 1 hour long / week of sprint.
Sprint Planning Part 1:

    Review the high-priority items
    What and Why?
    Devise the Sprint Goal

Spring Planning Part 2:

    How?
    Decide how much work will complete
    Sprint backlog
    Forecast

NOTE: Only volunteer for one task at a time.
DAILY SCRUM

    What has been accomplished since the last meeting?
    What will be done before the next meeting?
    What obstacles are in the way?

NOTE: This is for the benefit of the team and is not a status meeting to report to a manager.
TRACKING PROGRESS DURING THE SPRINT

    Update estimates in sprint backlog
    Spring burndown chart
    How much work remains in the future

PRODUCT BACKLOG REFINEMENT

    Split big items
    Analyze Items
    Re-Estimate
    Re-Prioritize

TIP: Some % of each sprint should be dedicated by the whole team to refining the product backlog to support future sprints
SPRINT REVIEW

    Inspection and adaptation related to the product
    Only prepare 30 min

SPRINT RETROSPECTIVE

    Inspection and adaption related to the process and environment
    Timeboxed to 45 min / week of sprint

STARTING THE NEXT SPRINT

    Maintain a sustainable pace
    Everything is completely finished every sprint
    A “Release Sprint” is considered a necessary evil

MANAGING RELEASES

    Some releases are date driven
    Others require certain features to be built
    The Destination is more important than the journey

Summary

Basically scrum keeps your teem from working on multiple projects at the same time, being segregated by defined rolls (which solves the John got it by a bus dilemma and we have no idea how to do what he does), keeps you from making software that isn't tested or documented, and should help you achieve the end goal of shipping code that will be of a higher quality then if you didn't use scrum.

Start by reading the [Scrum Primer](https://web.archive.org/web/20130731124510/http://scrumfoundation.com/library) if you want to learn even more about scrum.
